Graphic Era Deemed to be University is the culmination of the hard work of its visionary founder, Prof. (Dr.) Kamal Ghanshala, who had the dream to change the destiny of thousands of youths through quality and holistic education. In 1993, he embarked on the mission to transform the higher education landscape of the Doon Valley with twenty-nine thousand rupees in his pocket and loads of determination and tenacity in his heart, and started off with Graphic Era Computer Centre, developing software and delivering training on Computer Graphics. His vision gained concrete shape in 1997 in the form of Graphic Era Institute of Technology (GEIT).

Nestled in the central part of the scenic and modern city of Dehradun, bordered by Rajaji National Park and the Clement Town Cantonment on either side, the University Campus is a sight to behold. The serene and picturesque campus with the energy of the students studying and staying at the campus is almost infectious and provides an unforgettable experience for all the students who’re a part of the Graphic Era fraternity. The Campus is well-equipped with facilities of all kinds, including but not limited to Sports, World Class Accommodation for its students, Gymnasiums, Recreational Areas, State of Art Libraries and Computer Centres, High-Speed Wi-Fi Enabled Campus, State of Art Lecture Theatres equipped with Smart Boards, Auditoriums (Both Indoor and Outdoor), Multiple Cafeterias and Food Trucks and so much more.

In 2008, after successfully establishing itself as a Premier Higher Educational Institution with an outstanding placement record, the Institute was accorded the status of Deemed University under Section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956 vide Notification F.9-48/2007-U.3 (A) dated 14 August 2008 and approved by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India.

In August 2022, GEU was granted the coveted ‘A+’ grade by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), after the University had enjoyed NAAC ‘A’ grade since 2015.

In Dec 2022, GEU became the only university in the region to have 7 NBA accredited programs namely Computer Science & Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Electronics & Communication Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Biotechnology, and Master of Business Administration. The NBA Accreditations bear testimony to the High Standards of Academics at the University and allow students from the University to study at Top Universities across the globe without any hindrances.

In 2022, GEU also launched Online Degree Programs at both UG and PG Levels and achieved the distinction of being the first university in Uttarakhand to offer UGC/AICTE entitled Online education. The University boasts state-of-the-art online content delivery and assessment system to facilitate seamless online learning in these courses, benefitting professionals from the corporate world.

In August 2024, Graphic Era (Deemed to be University) was conferred All-India Rank 52 in the Engineering Category, All India Rank 59 in Management Category, All India Rank 52 in the University Category, and All India Rank 79 in the Overall Category in the MHRD’s National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) and retained its position consecutively for the fifth year amongst top 100 Universities of India.

Graphic Era offers more than 85 undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs with more than 50,000 Alumni and a huge number of High-Quality Faculty from the leading institutions and Universities of the world.

Graphic Era (Deemed to be University) regards industry-academia partnership as an integral part of teaching methodology and curriculum. It has acquired transnational dimensions through student exchange and knowledge-sharing programs with many foreign universities and has been acclaimed and honoured at International forums for its brilliance in upholding the highest standards of education. The University has ensured the inclusion of cutting-edge tech in its curriculum for all engineering programs by getting into partnerships with OEMs from various domains, such as Tata Technologies, TCS, Adobe, Bentley Software, Sapient, and many more, resulting in the creation of next-age engineering professionals.

Graphic Era University had realised the potential in the student world and embarked on the mission of facilitating entrepreneurship at a very early stage, and as the Start-Up Sector in India has risen to new heights under the vision of the Government of India, the University already had a robust structure in place to further provide Entrepreneurial Opportunities to its students. A DST Sponsored Technology Business Incubator has been operational in Graphic Era University for years and has successfully churned out Ventures of the highest grade that have also been appreciated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi.

At present, Graphic Era Deemed to be University has thousands of full-time students studying on its campus, pursuing education in different disciplines, ranging from engineering, science, business, management, commerce, and hospitality to humanities and social sciences. More than 50,000 Alumni of Graphic Era University can be encountered worldwide in marquee brands like Apple, Google, Microsoft, and HSBC, to name a few, and in the service of the nation in all wings of the Armed Forces.

GEU stands tall as a leading university in India retained its position consecutively for the fifth year amongst top 100 Universities of India, and as an abode of learning and excellence, setting new benchmarks in all parameters of assessment like teaching, learning, research, graduation outcome, outreach, industrial presence and more, for Indian Institutions of higher education.
Graphic Era (Deemed to be University) is placed in the Diamond Category (Overall) Ratings and in Platinum Category (Engineering) in the Indian Institution Ratings by QS I-Gauge
QS Rankings placed Graphic Era (Deemed to be University) at the 189th Rank in Asia.
Graphic Era (Deemed to be University) takes pride in delivering the Highest Quality of Higher Education with a consistent focus on Academic Rigor and Innovation and Research. The Top Higher Education regulatory and accreditation bodies of the country and the globe consistently rate Graphic Era University amongst the Top Higher Education Institutions of the country and the world.

The University has a long-standing history of being at the forefront of quality validation by the official bodies of the Ministry of Education, some of which are exclusively awarded to Graphic Era in the State of Uttarakhand. It is important to understand that these Accreditations and Recognitions come after rigorous procedures of analysing the Academic and Managerial aspects of a University, and their presence assures students that their future is in secure hands.

Graphic Era (Deemed to be University) enjoys several Accreditations and Recognitions that are exclusive and place the University in a separate league in the state of Uttarakhand. We strive to constantly upgrade ourselves and just like the recent past, the future will see many more laurels being conferred upon the University.
The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) is an annual ranking released by the Ministry of Education, Government of India and is an objective benchmark for quality Higher Education Institutions of India.

In August 2024, Graphic Era (Deemed to be University) was conferred All-India Rank 52 in the University Category, All-India Rank 52 in the Engineering Category, All-India Rank 59 in Management Category, and All-India Rank 79 in the Overall Category in the NIRF Ranking. With this, it achieved the distinction of being placed amongst the top 100 Universities of India for the fifth year in a row.
Graphic Era (Deemed to be University) is the only University in the state of Uttarakhand that has a total of 7 NBA Accredited Programs, B. Tech Computer Science and Engineering, B. Tech Electronics and Communication Engineering, B. Tech Mechanical Engineering, B. Tech Biotech, B. Tech Civil Engineering, B. Tech Electrical Engineering and Masters of Business Administration.
The NBA Accreditations bear testimony to the High Standards of Academics at the University and allow students from the University to study at Top Universities across the globe without any hindrances.

The University has a total of 120+ Start-Ups and 100+ Corporate Partners, including but not limited to Microsoft, Adobe, TCS, and many more.

The University has a total of 120+ Start-Ups and 100+ Corporate Partners, including but not limited to Microsoft, Adobe, TCS, and many more.

The University has a total of 120+ Start-Ups and 100+ Corporate Partners, including but not limited to Microsoft, Adobe, TCS, and many more.
Graphic Era (Deemed to be University) was accredited by NAAC with ‘A+’ grade in the year 2022. It is noteworthy that the University was accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ grade in 2015 with the Highest Grade Score in the region.
We are recognized in Band-Excellent under the category “University & Deemed to be University (Private/Self-Financed) (Technical)” in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements 2023
Placements are at the core of University Education, especially in a rapidly growing country like India. Graphic Era (Deemed to be University) has earned widespread recognition since its establishment for maintaining an exceptional track record of consistently high student placements.
Top Placements are a result of synchronized performing of a lot many aspects of the higher education ecosystem, such as student performance and skillsets, the academic rigor instilled in the course structure and content delivery, specific placement preparation for specialised roles and a specialized and professional Placement Team bridging the opportunities with the right candidates. Graphic Era’s Placement Ecosystem excels in all of these aspects and this is the recipe for our success. The Academic Rigor and the student performance and skillsets, go hand in hand and this is found in the very basic structure of the University.

At Graphic Era (Deemed to be University), we prioritize the preparation of our students for placements. Our dedicated and skilled placement trainers start working with students right from the beginning of their program. They focus on enhancing their placement-related skills and mindset, ensuring they are well-equipped to compete at an international level successfully, year after year.

The Placement Committee at Graphic Era leaves no stones unturned to map the best opportunities to the right candidates, resulting in the Consistently High Placements of our students across Top MNCs of the World at both Domestic and International Locations

Graphic Era has been delivering the Highest Number of Tier-1 Placements in the region, Year on Year, for the past many years with the maximum number of selection in Global Giants like Amazon, Adobe, Microsoft and Google.

Graphic Era (Deemed to be University) has continuously established new standards for placements with leading global MNCs, and the year 2024 has been no exception. Our students have excelled in rigorous selection processes and secured positions in their dream companies with some of the highest packages in the country. The key to this remarkable success lies in the supportive ecosystem provided to the students during their time at the university. Their dedication, along with specialized placement training and preparation right from the beginning, has been instrumental in achieving such stupendous results over the years.